My TED essay I wrote while I'm holding my poop is so damn good I decided to put it here so I can showcase it more easily :p

===

I am an engineer by profession, and a problem solver by nature. I have seen many problems arising everywhere I go and observe: the people living in where I usually took my commutes, global issues that is gravely life-threatening yet unknown by most people, the list goes on. I want to see how thought leaders, especially Indonesians, see or think things through the conundrums and how they are trying to solve it.

In my view, undoubtedly the biggest problem humanity is will be facing is sustainability, in regards to energy and environment. We have seen multiple great wars in the past century, and I believe current political and economic structures in place will help prevent such apocalypse from happening again. Along the same timeline, mankind also achieved tremendous technological advancements that greatly improves our way of living; average life expectancy and birth rate is on a constant rise.

Millions – even billions – of humans will be born in the next century. When they arrived, where and how will they are going to live? How are we going to obtain energy needed to support our current way of life? I'd like to see a world where New York City can no longer grows and halts to be the greatest financial center of our world. Or when the vast, currently sparsely populated areas can host the aforementioned population, hopefully in a more sustainable way than ours. The road is still long, and many improvements can be made along the way.

I hope that by joining TED, I can gain more insight in foreseeing – and hopefully, helping to build – a world where our grandchildren can live in a more harmonious and sustainable way, well into their next generation of offspring.
